I'm Emma Hemphill.
I teach grade 16 French immersion
and pass at Fundy Middle and High School.
Part of our French immersion programing,
we have done
many Scad
which is a bracket of French artists
selected by a group of teachers
from the US.
They put together a fabulous program,
a French artist from around the world.
And it gives kids an opportunity
to broaden their horizons
with French culture.
So, how it works is we have each song
cycle against each other, and the students
get to vote for their favorite
and fill out their brackets.
And we also vote as a class,
and we get to vote with every other kid
in the world who does it.
There was over 100,000 kids,
I think, that participated globally,
and it's fun because they're adding songs
onto their playlists that they like.
They get to learn
about different countries,
French countries,
and we do it with the Pip classes as well.
And they also get, really involved
and into it, which is nice to see because,
the French immersion kids
have a more link to the French culture
aspect, but, it really brings
the kids that are taking post
intensive French into that part of French,
because they don't necessarily
get a lot of exposure to the culture part.
So the people that design the whole thing
spend quite a bit of time
on it, actually, and there's a whole drive
of activities and,
we analyze lyrics, we talk about,
like those part, that part,
but the part that the kids get really
excited about is the voting system.
And so it would be like a march madness
basketball bracket.
Less complicated.
Obviously.
But, they put songs up against each other
and there's two different sides
of the bracket.
And, eventually it comes out with two,
distinct opponents,
and the kids have to vote.
And then when they, they release, videos
that,
tell the kids who won each, each round
and, the kids get very into that as well.
They ask every day all the time for
have they release anyone?
Do we know who won between these two?
And sometimes the class is very divided,
so they're very competitive.
So one thing I've noticed
is that when we like,
we've done lyric analysis
or talk about themes within music,
with many music out in my classroom,
and the kids really like it
because they're already familiar
with the songs or the artists
from previous years, or from listening
to more songs
from artists from previous, many years.
And so they're very invested that way.
It's nice to see them
care about something like.
They really, really like it.
And, with post intensive French,
they don't necessarily do the lyric
analysis that we do in Selah, but,
we do do some lyric stuff with them.
And they also like making the connection
between the French words
and then understanding more about what
the song is about.
In English, we watch music videos.
We, listen to the song multiple times,
and many musical has a playlist
for every year on YouTube.
And so the kids will often ask,
can we listen to last year
many playlists while we work?
So it's been a positive
French, experience for them.
And it's nice because they also get
to see different aspects of French
culture in Africa and Europe
and other places around the world.
My name is has, a website that you go to
and teachers can register their school.
So typically I think it's one teacher
that registers the whole schools.
And we have access to all the things
that they have created.
Plus, when teachers create stuff,
they can send them in and they upload them
into, things a Google Drive or a Padlet
or something or both that they've used.
So they
use that and we get access
to all of those things.
They'll release all the songs
that are available at once,
so we can go through them,
because then when the voting starts,
you have to have done
your bracket already, and it takes quite
a bit of time to get through 16 songs.
So we usually start about a month before.
So, the kids vote, they vote as a class
and they fill out their own brackets
because we do a little competition of like
who can get the most points
like individually as well.
So it encourages them
not to just vote with everyone else.
And yeah, that's basically it.
And then it depends on
like we try and link
what we're doing and feel
to some of the activities that they give.
And because really like,
but when they do the reveal videos,
they put videos that teachers
have submitted of the kids doing dances
to the songs or art that they've created
and means that they've created.
And so the kids get to see
all of the other students globally
participating in many, too,
because they'll say, oh,
from Ottawa, Ontario,
and it'll be the kids dancing or the art
or what have you, but implementing it,
I would just say go for it.
You can't do it wrong.
So it's not something
that you have to follow.
It's not a prescribed thing.
You can make it work for you
in your classroom, but it really does
bring a lot of, fun and entertainment
and a good way
to connect with the kids through music,
because that's also part of the secret.